---
id: nondeterministic
title: Import keys into a Prysm wallet
sidebar_label: Import keys into a Prysm wallet
---

## Background

An imported wallet provides the ability to import existing EIP-2335 keystore files into Prysm, such as those generated by the eth2.0-deposit-cli. If you created a deposit using the official [Ethereum launchpad](https://launchpad.ethereum.org/) and want to run Prysm using it, see our dedicated instructions [here](/docs/mainnet/joining-eth2).

:::tip Pro-Tip
This is one of the safest ways of running Prysm, because you can generate your wallet using any other software you prefer such as the official [eth2.0-deposit-cli](https://github.com/ethereum/eth2.0-deposit-cli) and simply import the validating keys you need. You can then keep your mnemonic and all other sensitive information secure and away from your validator.
:::

Validator private keys are encrypted with a password using the [EIP-2335](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2335) keystore.json standard for storing BLS12-381 private keys.

Validating keys are stored in the wallet's directory under a single `all-accounts.keystore.json` file which is encrypted with a strong wallet password.

```
wallet-dir/
	accounts/
		all-accounts.keystore.json
```

Your password to unlock this file is **not** stored on disk by Prysm. You will need to provide it anytime you run the validator or provide it via your own file using the `--wallet-password-file` flag.

## Usage

### Wallet creation

A non-HD wallet is the most basic sort of wallet, storing all information on-disk. This approach makes it trivial to import, export and list all associated accounts within the wallet. To start using the non-HD wallet, you can create a new wallet using:

```bash
./prysm.sh validator wallet create
```

Then select **non-HD** wallet when prompted. You can also create a wallet **non-interactively** by using the following command line flags, which are also viewable by typing `./prysm.sh validator wallet create --help.

:::info
You'll need to set a **strong** password for your wallet, containing at least 1 uppercase letter, 1 number, a special character, and be at least 8 characters long. Any unicode characters can be used for passwords.
:::

| Flag          | Usage         |
| ------------- |:-------------|
| `--wallet-dir` | Path to a wallet directory (default: "$HOME/Eth2Validators/prysm-wallet-v2")
| `--wallet-password-file` | Path to a file containing your wallet's password for automatic unlocking
| `--keymanager-kind`     | Type of wallet to create, either "imported", "derived, or "remote" (default "derived")

Here's a full example on how to create a non-HD wallet at `$HOME/mynonhdwallet`.
```bash
./prysm.sh validator wallet create --wallet-dir=$HOME/nonhdwallet --wallet-password-file=/path/to/password.txt --keymanager-kind=imported
```

### Import validator accounts

You can import validator keystores from a separate folder into your wallet with the following command

```bash
./prysm.sh validator accounts import --keys-dir=/path/to/keystores
```

This will import all files that are valid [EIP-2335](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2335) keystores, such as those generated by the official [eth2 deposit launchpad](https://launchpad.ethereum.org/)'s command-line tool. For more information on how to run Prysm when coming from launchpad, read our [eth2 launchpad onboarding](/docs/mainnet/joining-eth2) documentation. The files you are importing must have the prefix `keystore-`.

### List validator accounts

You can list all validator accounts in your non-HD wallet using the following command

```bash
./prysm.sh validator accounts list
```

Where you'll see the following output

```bash
INFO accounts: (wallet path) /Users/johndoe/Library/Eth2Validators/prysm-wallet-v2

Showing **1** validator account

personally-conscious-echidna
[public key] 0x971d780edfe98743f41cdcdba8521548fc343ffcd958e90968c4f1cc5a2e9b6ea11a984397c34c6cc13e9d4e8d14ce1e
[created at] 16 minutes ago
```

You can also run the `accounts list` command **non-interactively** by using the following command line flags, which are also viewable by typing `./prysm.sh validator accounts list --help.

| Flag          | Usage         |
| ------------- |:-------------|
| `--wallet-dir` | Path to a wallet directory (default: "$HOME/Eth2Validators/prysm-wallet-v2")
| `--wallet-password-file`     | Path to a plain-text file containing your wallet password


### Backup validator accounts

:::danger Be very careful using validator account backups!
If you have made a validator account backup and plan to use it on a different instance, 
please **confirm** that you do not run multiple instances of the same validator twice. 
This _will_ result in slashing and major loss of user funds.
:::


You can backup validator accounts from your imported wallet using the following command.

```bash
./prysm.sh validator accounts backup
```

You can also run the `accounts backup` command **non-interactively** by using the following command line flags, which are also viewable by typing `./prysm.sh validator accounts backup --help.

| Flag          | Usage         |
| ------------- |:-------------|
|`--wallet-dir`| Path to a wallet directory on-disk for Prysm validator accounts. (default: $HOME/Eth2Validators/prysm-wallet-v2)
|`--wallet-password-file`| Path to a plain-text, .txt file containing your wallet password.
|`--backup-dir`| Path to a directory where accounts will be backed up into a zip file. (default: $HOME/Eth2Validators/)
|`--backup-public-keys`| Comma-separated list of public key hex strings to specify which validator accounts to backup.
|`--backup-password-file`| Path to a plain-text, .txt file containing the desired password for your backed up accounts.

import {RequestUpdateWidget} from '@site/src/components/RequestUpdateWidget.js';

<RequestUpdateWidget />