---
id: 214-rc
title: Use Prysm v2.1.4 to Merge-test Goerli-Prater
sidebar_label: Use Prysm v2.1.4 to Merge-test Goerli-Prater
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

[Prysm v2.1.4](https://github.com/prysmaticlabs/prysm/releases/tag/v2.1.4) can be used to run a node on Goerli-Prater using Merge-ready configuration. If you'd like to Merge-test the Goerli-Prater [network pair](../concepts/nodes-networks.md), use either of the following guides to configure your node (and optionally, your validator):

 - [Quickstart](../install/install-with-script.md): For users who are starting from scratch.
 - [Prepare for The Merge](../prepare-for-merge.md): For users who are already running a node.


Keep the following checklist in mind:

 - **Ensure that you're using a network-compatible version of your execution client**: You may need to use a prerelease version of execution client software if you want to Merge-test on the Goerli-Prater network pair. Execution client guidance is available [here](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/goerli), though we recommend referring to your execution client software documentation for the latest guidance.
 - **Tell Prysm to use v2.1.4 if you've previously configured the `USE_PRYSM_VERSION` environment variable**: Before invoking `prysm.sh` (Linux) or `prysm.bat` (Windows), use `set USE_PRYSM_VERSION=v2.1.4` to ensure that Prysm uses the latest stable release.
 - **Verify your version**: Verify that Prysm is using the `v2.1.4-rc.1` release candidate by issuing the following command: `prysm.sh beacon-chain --version` (Linux) `prysm.bat beacon-chain --version` (Windows).
 - **Configure JWT**: Ensure that both your execution node and beacon node are configured to use JWT authentication. These instructions are included in both of the above-linked documents, and are also available here: [Configure JWT](../execution-node/authentication.md).
 - (Power users) Review the Ethereum Launchpad's [Merge config checklist](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/merge-configuration-checklist).

<!-- This command sets an environment variable that tells Prysm which version to use. **Do not use release candidates on Mainnet - release candidates should only ever be used on testnets.** -->


import {RequestUpdateWidget} from '@site/src/components/RequestUpdateWidget.js';

<RequestUpdateWidget />